# My Experience with Rubber Ducking 

Since at this time in the course we are finishing our assignment and leveraging Lambda calculus to create another functional language I thought it would be kind of boring to go over the assingment. That is why for this blog post I wanted to explain Rubber Ducking and my experience in this course using this method to solve problems. 

## What is Rubber Ducking

Rubber ducking debugging is a method of debugging that was coined within the *Pragmatic Programmer*. The basic story is that a programmer would always bring an inanimate rubber duck anytime that they began to code. Upon reaching a certain error that is non trivial within one's code: rereading the code, deleting code, debugging by print statements, among other methodologies can sometimes: cause even more confusion, back tracking on previous work, and just plain working in circles. The Rubber Duck debugging method I have found counteracts these potential losses of time by pointing out simple mistakes and questioning the overall sequential map of the code. In order to use the Rubber Duck method all one has to do is to explain the non trivial coding issue to the duck in as much detail as possible. The hope is that after explaining everything to the duck exactly as it sequentially occurs in the code should point out a potential case that does not work, code that is missing, or a mismatch in the order of operations. Many times I find that when coding for an extended period of time one's thoughts work in the syntax of the programming language and can cause one to have a more and more myopic view of the program as time goes on. I think it is a cool idea to relate this to abstract and concrete syntax in that the programming language as a whole is abstract syntax to create a concrete result. In other words when stuck in this world of abstraction one can lose sight of the concrete result that the program is meant to produce in the end. That's why I think taking your head out of the text document and explaining it simply in words points out previously incorrect assumptions and general errors. 

## My Experience
In larger and more complex programming languages like C# this method is very useful and I can say this first hand with my game programming experience. In the current game that I am working on there are roughly 40 different custom scripts (classes) that work together to make the game run. These classes call on one another at what can be considered random times (since players define interactions) and many of them have what are called Update() functions which are essentially while loops that never end (they only end when the game ends) thus one can see how issues can quickly arise. If a method within a specific class calls on another method from another class whose desired data depends on the Update function there can be mismatched data if it is not collected at the right time. I give this example because it is one case of many others that shows just how long a road map (the sequential calls to methods as time goes on) for a program could be and why the Rubber Duck method is so useful. So if I wanted to know why I am getting mismatched data in the loop I would first go to the initial class that calls for that data. In that class I would explain to the duck everything that happens to the point before the call. I would explain the assumptions that I make when the call is made, why I need to make the call, and then explain why I did not call it in a different way. Then within the Update method of the other class I would explain to the duck what affects the desired data, what has theoretically happened to the data over the course of the game, and how I am getting the proper data to the method that called for it.

With this example I hope that it can show how useful this method is for such a complex system and that it can easily be applied to Lambda Calculus and Haskell. For the record, I have used the Rubber Duck method for every assignment in this course. What I usually would do is prepare an email to the professor with a question, with that question I would provide as much information and explanation as I possibly could to why I was confused and why my program was potentially not working. Surprisingly I would say that 80% of the emails I wrote to the professor were never sent as they gave me a clue on where I was going wrong. 

Overall I think Rubber Duck Debugging is an immensely useful tool that solves issues more quickly than I had expected and it gives a programmer confidence in their own ability to explain, understand, and write code by solving the issue themselves. 


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rubber_duck_debugging
